In this video, I'll show you how to get started
with Web three and run some basic commands.
Don't run this command yet but to install Web three,
all you need to do is open a terminal and type npm install web three.
That's all it takes to get it installed on your computer.
But first, let's set up a project folder before getting started.
So, to start, create a navigate into a project folder.
You'll use this folder to set up a small project with the Web three dependency.
To do that, first make a directory project folder then CD into this folder.
Within this directory, you'll want to initialize a project using npm in it.
You can select all the defaults for now to get your package dot json file started.
Next, save Web three as a dependency for the project.
To do this type npm install web three dash dash save.
This could take a little while but I want to show you the process.
So, I'll speed up the camera on my end but feel free to pause it while yours installs.
You'll see all types of stuff show up but if at the end it
says it installed successfully, then you're good to go.
Next, open node in your terminal window by typing node.
To connect to Web three from node, you'll need to require it.
Make a variable named Web three with a capital W,
because that's the name of
the main Web three class that contains all of the other modules.
Then, set that equal to require Web three which is the package you installed.
At this point, you're connected to Web three and all
you need to do is call the web three variable you set.
When you do, you should see your terminal respond with lots of
information about your installation like the version and functions it provides.
One piece of information that stands out to me is the unit map.
Ether is won the nomination of value in ethereum but
there's many others like splitting bills into change,
ether can be split into many other denominations.
Here you'll see everything from way together.
The most common you'll probably see other than ether is way,
which you've seen already if you look back at the remix contract you deployed.
So, that's a lot of names but what's
important here is what Web three allows you to do with them.
You can convert between these value types using Web three.
One reason this can be important is that when sending transactions,
you can't actually specify decimal places in the amount of ether you want to send.
You will need to reduce the value to a lower denomination,
then specify the appropriate number of that denomination.
That's confusing to explain in ether but it's easy when I relate it back to money.
So, say in the US dollar version of what I mean is that you can't send $1.5 to someone.
You need to convert dollars to pennies then send
a 150 pennies to someone instead to avoid using a decimal place.
Same thing here, just with ether and way.
So anyway, that's an important tip but not to relate it to Web three right now.
As far as Web three goes we're already in.
But there's a reason I named this concept preparing to connect to the Ethereum network.
That's because Web three is the API
but we still don't have an actual connection to a network.
There's a few ways to connect to the network but I wanted to connect with
the most impact possible using the tool that's the easiest to get set up with.
So, for that reason,
we're going to connect to the main network using a tool known as inferior.
In the next section, we'll get you set up with inferior and
start reading data directly from the main theory in block chain.